Being a computer engineering student is not as easy as everyone imagines, until you become one. You have to endure all the pain, the sacrifices, challenges and struggles in it. You also have to shed lots of sweats and tears and give extra extra effort in order to surpass and succeed in this kind of tricky, risky, yet worth the wait profession.
	As I go along in my journey to this course, I encountered different instructors that molded, motivated, helped, and imparted knowledge and lessons to us. Different subjects that tests our patience, brain capabilities, emotional strength and of course financial support because you will have to provide money for the expenses of the projects in different subjects in order to pass and comply the requirements of being a computer engineering student.
	Troubleshooting is to operate or serve as a troubleshooter, where in you will have to check whether what or where did the trouble begin and what to do to make it functional again. It is an interesting work when you can find out where the trouble or defect is and you can easily troubleshoot it or fix it.
	My topic in our subject, Troubleshooting of computer systems was about Printer.
I made a report about the facts of a printer and made also a Powerpoint presentation in it to make my report understandable and catchy or can catch the attentions of my audience so that they can focus and learn something about my report. Here are some of the high lights of my topic.
	-Printer is a peripheral device which makes a persistent human readable representation of graphics or text on paper.
	- The first computer printer designed was a mechanically driven apparatus by Charles Babbage for his difference engine in the 19th century; however, his mechanical printer design was not built until 2000.
	-The first electronic printer was the EP-101, invented by Japanese company Epson and released in 1968.
	There are different types of printers, first is the personal printers, personal printers are primarily designed to support individual users. And may be connected to only a single computer. Next is the networked or shared printer, network or shared printer are designed for high-volume, high speed printing. Another one is the virtual printer. Virtual printer is a piece of computer software whose user interface and API resembles that of a printer driver, but which is not connected with a physical computer printer.
	Examples of it are Bullzip PDF printer, CC PDF Converter, Microsoft XPS Document writer, Nova PDF and universal Document converter, And the last type of printer is the 3D printer which is a device for making a three dimensional object from a 3D model or other electronic data source through additive processes in which successive layers of material (including plastics, metals, food, cement, wood, and other materials) are laid down under computer control.
	These are also common problems in the printer that needs to be troubleshoot like the printer won’t print. When the printer claim it’s running out of ink, but still can print, the printer’s too slow, the printed text looks lousy, the inkjet’s photo looks lousy and when you get a lot of paper jams. With these problems, solutions of it are given like cleaning the printer head, cleaning the insides, checking under the hood, choosing the right refill, be careful in replacing cartridges, replacing cartridges before it dries up, turning it off when it’s not used, downloading the latest drivers and keeping the printer manual case.
	Fun facts also are included in it like fuser rollers get up to about 205 degrees Celsius, Toner doesn’t need much heat to melt, The worlds smallest printer is 2x2x11 inches, the world largest printer is almost 40x164 feet, the fastest printers in the world can print 150 pages in a minute and lastly three dimensional printers can print food.
	In our first quiz, the computer that we are going to troubleshoot is the ASUS P5GC/ 1333 INTEL, which had a problem that the PC won’t boot to BIOS and the possible causes of it are faulty RAM, faulty PCI cards, misplaced front panel connectors, missing power supply cables, the CPU is dead and the PSU is not working properly. In faulty RAM, it is advisable to make sure it is properly seated, try transferring to another slot or rotate it and if there is no chance that the RAM may function, you may have to replace it. In faulty PCI cards, you will have to check if the power supply gives the right voltage through a regulator. It is also advisable to check that the front panel connectors are properly placed and connected, also with the power supply cables. If the CPU is dead, you need to replace the CPU.
	The second quiz that we had was about the Raspberry Pi. How did the Raspberry Pi that has given to us work. Upon troubleshooting the raspberry Pi that was not functional, we observed that the charger we used wasn’t compatible with the Raspberry Pi, because the model B uses between 1000 mA depending on what components or peripherals are connected to it. Since we suspected that the charger that is not compatible to the Raspberry Pi is the one causing the trouble, we connected another charger that is appropriate and compatible to the model and luckily, it functioned well and worked properly.
	In this subject, troubleshooting of computer systems, I learned a lot of ways on how to deal with various computer errors and troubles. I have learned the basic fixes of most common computers troubles that most computer users encounter. I also have learned how to take good care of our personal computers to avoid having errors. The subject has really been a great experience for me. Our instructor, Engr. Max Angelo Perin have helped us a lot, not just the subject troubleshooting but also on the other subjects. He gave us plenty of time to accomplish our other subjects’ requirements.
	It was really a great help for us. Also, Engr. Perin did not just focus on the subject itself, he also made the class enjoyable and fun by talking about things that we are interested such as K-Pop, and many other things. In that way, he helped us overcome the gap between an instructor and the students.
	Overall, the subject troubleshooting of computer systems as a computer engineering student. A lot of things have been added on my skills. I know these things can be used in the workplace.
